The Internet Protocol (IP) [1] is used for host-to-host datagram
service in a system of interconnected networks called the
Catenet [2].  The network connecting devices are called Gateways.
These gateways communicate between themselves for control purposes
via a Gateway to Gateway Protocol (GGP) [3,4].  Occasionally a
gateway or destination host will communicate with a source host, for
example, to report an error in datagram processing.  For such
purposes this protocol, the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP),
is used.  ICMP, uses the basic support of IP as if it were a higher
level protocol, however, ICMP is actually an integral part of IP, and
must be implemented by every IP module.

ICMP messages are sent in several situations:  for example, when a
datagram cannot reach its destination, when the gateway does not have
the buffering capacity to forward a datagram, and when the gateway
can direct the host to send traffic on a shorter route.

The Internet Protocol is not designed to be absolutely reliable.  The
purpose of these control messages is to provide feedback about
problems in the communication environment, not to make IP reliable.
There are still no guarantees that a datagram will be delivered or a
control message will be returned.  Some datagrams may still be
undelivered without any report of their loss.  The higher level
protocols that use IP must implement their own reliability procedures
if reliable communication is required.

The ICMP messages typically report errors in the processing of
datagrams.  To avoid the infinite regress of messages about messages
etc., no ICMP messages are sent about ICMP messages.  Also ICMP
messages are only sent about errors in handling fragment zero of
fragemented datagrams.  (Fragment zero has the fragment offeset equal
zero).